D,L incorporation . .
of a Methodist College in Georgia was authorized in 1836 by the State
conference in session at Columbus, Georgia. Immediately trustees were
appointed to select a suitable place for the institution. After much in¬
vestigation, the location of Oxford was chosen. Thus, with the purchase
of fourteen hundred acres, the enterprise was begun.
At the suggestion of Dr. Ignatius A. Few, the little town was given
the classic name of Oxford in honor of the great English University.
The name Emory was given the college as a tribute to the memory
of Bishop John Emory, who was killed a few years prior to the found¬
ing of the college in an unfortunate carriage accident.
In 1838 the first students were admitted to Emory College. The
college then consisted of two buildings in a town with a population of
less than seventy-five.
During the administration of Dr. A. G. Haygood, the college began
to take a new life. Mr. George I. Seney of Brooklyn, New York, who
was deeply interested in the institution, donated a hundred thousand
dollars toward the erection of a campus building. The building was
named "Seney Hall" in his honor.
Under the presidency of Bishop Warren A. Candler, one hundred
thousand dollars was added to the endowment of the college. The
Library was erected and named in his honor.
Science Hall was the next building to be added, with William's
Gymnasium added several years later.
Since the college was named in honor of England's great educational
institution, the town was patterned after Oxford, England, with broad,
shady, streets and quaint old homes.
Few and Phi Gamma Societies were organized to train speakers
and to produce orators of the true southern tradition.
The Old Church, located on the Oxford Campus, was built in 1841.
Possibly one of the most interesting places on the Emory Campus
is the old Confederate Cemetery. Emory closed its doors to students
during the War Between the States and served as soldiers quarters, hos¬
pitals, and as a storage place for household valuables in this area. Many
students left for the Confederate army without even returning home
to say good-bye. In 1866, the school bell rang again, and the struggle
to build a great school was resumed.
In 1919 Emory College moved to its present Atlanta site, with the
Oxford Campus becoming an academy for the completion of high school
and the first two years of college.
